What is Pants?
--------------

    Pants is an Apache Ant-based package manager for the management of 3rd party
    dependencies in Java development projects. It's loosely modeled after
    FreeBSD's Ports and Gentoo Linux's Portage, with two major differences:

    * Pants isn't intended for system-wide package management. It's tailored for
      per-project 3rd party package management. You will typically have one
      Pants repository per project and each repository will be located somewhere
      under your project's root directory. If you're familiar with Ports or
      Portage, a Pants repository is roughly analogous to /usr/ports or
      /usr/portage.

    * Pants is extremely portable. It goes anywhere Apache Ant goes.

    Pants takes a modular approach to the standard Ant buildfile, breaking it
    into 3 files for functionality and convenience:

    1. The Pants public interface, pants/build.xml, provides a single consistent
       way to access and manipulate dependency packages and relieves some of the
       developer's burden by providing implementations for some frequently-used
       and complex Ant operations.

    2. pbuild.xml is a specially-structured and slimmed-down Ant buildfile in
       which you implement custom handling for a package your project depends
       on. This is known as the "pbuild" and is roughly analogous to a FreeBSD
       port or a Gentoo ebuild. A fairly explanatory template for pbuilds,
       pbuild.template.xml, is provided.

    3. pbuild.properties contains those properties for a specific pbuild which
       are most likely to change over time. It uses the java.util.Properties
       format which is more human-friendly for hand-editing than Ant/XML. A
       fairly explanatory template, pbuild.template.properties, is provided.

    There is one more file that completes the Pants system: the metadata file
    pants/world is a database for keeping track of all packages managed by Pants
    for your project.

    Pants automatically handles versioning for your project's dependency
    packages and keeps track of their recommended versions, currently used
    versions, and latest available versions. This makes it extremely simple for
    project developers to switch back and forth between different versions of a
    dependency, and makes it just as easy to update a dependency. You can even
    update all your project's Pants-managed packages with a single command.

    Pbuilds are designed to automatically handle the downloading, building,
    repackaging and deployment of source archives, binary archives, and CVS
    sources, all in a manner that's completely transparent to the project
    developer. Pbuilds currently support tar + gzip, tar + bzip2, and zip
    archives.

    Because it is based on Ant, Pants integrates very well with Ant buildfiles
    and will fit easily into your project's Ant build framework. However, its
    interface is simple enough to be called just as easily by more traditional
    build systems such as GNU Make.


Why Should I Use Pants?
-----------------------

    There are many applications for Pants, but a few use cases should best serve
    to illustrate its usefulness:

    1. You have a project that you ship with several 3rd party libraries but the
       versions you're using are stale. With a single command, Pants can
       automatically discover the latest release versions for all of these, then
       download, build, and place the fresh libraries where your project's main
       build system expects them to be at build time.

    2. You want to test multiple versions of a 3rd party library against your
       project. Pants only requires you to issue a single command to switch
       library versions, so can spend more time testing and less time hunting
       packages down, unpackaging them, symlinking, etc.

    3. Pants is public domain. You can ship it with your project if you need to
       without having to worry about petty intellectual property or licensing
       issues.


Minimum Requirements
--------------------

    * Apache Ant 1.6.2 or higher is recommended

    * Any Java runtime and operating system that will run Ant


Installation
------------

    Not finished yet.


Why the Silly Name?
-------------------

    Ports + Ant = Pants. Any other explanation is purely a product of your
    twisted imagination.


Miscellaneous Pocket Fluff
--------------------------

    Author:  smeghead <smeghead@i2pmail.org> <smeghead@mail.i2p>

    License: No license necessary. This work is released into the public domain.

    Price:   Free! But if you really appreciate Pants, or you're just a sicko,
             please send me a picture of your worst or most unusual pair of
             pants so I can add it to the Whirling Hall of Pants on pants.i2p,
             the official Pants eepsite (that's an anonymous website on I2P--see
             http://www.i2p.net for more information).


$Id$
